welcome to this tutorial brought to you
by River City Graphix today when you've
shown you how to use the motion sketch
and auto orient features in After
Effects so to get serving and go down to
After Effects and we're going to be
going to our composition window and
clicking on layer new solid and we're
just going to make a new solid any color
comp size click OK and basically we're
basically we're going to be using this
as a shape so I'm just gonna make it
into a kind of vertical rectangle and
just put it down into the bottom corner
so what motion sketch which is the first
thing we'll be talking about what that
does is it basically allows you to take
and draw a path in After Effects and
animate your shape along it so in
traditional animation with in After
Effects you would actually have to set
keyframes and rotation and position and
things like that automatically like
you'd basically set those where you want
it to move but this will automatically
generate this for you as you kind of
move your mouse around in the path that
you want it to follow so in order to get
to the motion sketch window you go up to
window and then down to motion sketch
and I already have mine open down here
so this is what the panel will look like
you have capture speed smoothing you
have show and you have start duration
and start capture so I'm just going to
set this back to 1 because that's
probably how it'll look for you on the
smoothing and I'm just going to show you
straight out how this work so we're just
going to click to start capture and then
we're just going to make sure our
cursors at the beginning there and then
just take and drag along a path wherever
you want your object to go as you can
see it's made a bunch of keyframes if we
take and toggle down our little arrow on
our blue salad there and toggle down
transform you can see all the different
points that are made and so if we take
and move this along we click on it you
can see it's following all those points
and it moves in that same path that we
just moved our mouse so this can be very
good for doing quick animation or if you
want to take the time to refine these
keyframes you can take any of these
keyframes and pretty much just move them
around and you can actually refine them
how you would like so if you want it a
little bit more fine-tuned animation on
there what you can do is I'm just going
to take and delete these keyframes out
and we can start over here put that down
layer move this to the beginning now
what these other settings do are
basically you have capture speed at 100%
so we're capturing at real-time
basically so if you have a really
precise say you're doing like some kind
of spiral effect to your shape you're
probably gonna want to take your time
when you're moving your mouse around so
you're gonna want to move slower so
you're not capturing it real time you'd
put it on something like half time or a
fourth of the time so you'd up this
number depending on how slow you're
actually moving your mouse or you can
just adjust the keyframes later but this
kind of gives you the chance to do that
right away
now within smoothing this is definitely
something I'd recommend using you saw
how there were a ton of different
keyframes if you want to cut the
keyframes down to having like more
distinct keyframes or other than just a
bunch of them basically having at one
smoothing it'll give you the most
accurate representation of how your
mouse moved but if you take and put it
up at something like ten which I would
recommend and then you do start capture
it will take and it'll kind of make some
key keyframes and you can see that now
we have instead of like 30 keyframes or
something we have like well there was
probably more than that we have some
distinct just a few keyframes and so
it's much easier to tweak your animation
later on so that's basically how motion
sketch works its really good for mocking
up animation and you can actually use it
for some pretty nice stuff as well so
just for animating position around so
now that we have our path going right
now it kind of looks like we've made a
windy road so the second thing I'm gonna
be showing you how to do is auto orient
your shape and what I mean by this is
say that we imagine our blue shape as a
car and we want it to be going along
this windy road from like a top down
like a bird's-eye view perspective now
when it gets to this curve it would be
probably rotated and be going around and
rotate as its following around here now
to do this without the After Effects
feature I'm going to show you you'd
basically have to be rotating it
periodically along here and setting
keyframes and it would take a while so
what I'm going to show you here is if
you just I'm just going to close that
for simplicity is if you click on your
layer then go
to layer now to transform then go down
to Auto Orient and then click orient
along a path which is what we have
already created with our motion sketch
just click OK and basically it will take
and move your shape along the path and
it'll oriented depending on how your
your path moves so now if we want it to
look like a car we'll just kind of fix
it on the very beginning position so
that it's kind of pointing towards where
it's going to be driving and now you can
see that it auto Orient's to that path
so this can be really helpful um I just
thought I should bring that up because
we already had a curving path that we
made with our motion sketch so it's
definitely a nice tip so you don't have
to manually add in those rotation
keyframes so hope you guys learned
something in today's tutorial I don't
forget to subscribe rate and comment and
check back next week for a new video
tutorial thanks for watching